# Nurse-plant-temperature-microclimates-
Analysis of Sonoran Desert nurse plant microclimates  
Ground temperature data has been collected for under canopies of Ambrosia deltoidea, Parkinsonia microphylla, Olneya tesota, Larrea tridentata, and open ground outside of the influence of a plant canopy at four different locations within the Sonoran Desert using the Kestral Drop 1 temperature logger.  Data was collected at these locations between the months of January and July over the course of several years.  Temperature data was not collected for each of these plants at each location due to absence of some plants at some locations.  Lower daily maximum temperatures, higher daily minimum temperatures, and lower daily temperature ranges were found for ground temperatures in the microclimates under all four of the examined plants canopies when compared to open habitat outside of the influence of a plant canopy. Nurse plants lowered maximum daily ground temperatures by up to 11.5 Degrees C in the summer and 9.9 Degrees C in the winter.  Daily low temperatures were up to 3.2 Degrees C higher in summer and 1.8 degrees C higher in winter.  Temperature differences between nurse plant microclimates and open habitat outside of plant canopies were all found to be statistically significant utilizing 1,000 permutations for all nurse plants examined.  This study demonstrates nurse plants as being a significant factor in protection from daily temperature extremes and an important environmental stabilizer.  
